# Contributing
[mlist][repo] is open source projects, and we welcome contributions of all kinds: new functions, fixes to existing material, bug reports, and reviews of proposed changes are all welcome.

## Contributor Agreement

By contributing,
you agree that we may redistribute your work under [our license](LICENSE.md).
In exchange,
we will address your issues and/or assess your change proposal as promptly as we can,
and help you become a member of our community.
Everyone involved in mlist
agrees to abide by our [code of conduct](CONDUCT.md).

## How to Contribute

The easiest way to get started is to file an issue
to tell us about a spelling mistake,
some awkward wording,
or a factual error.
This is a good way to introduce yourself
and to meet some of our community members.

1.  If you do not have a [GitHub][github] account,
    you can send us comments by email.
    However,
    we will be able to respond more quickly if you use one of the other methods described below.

2.  If you have a [GitHub][github] account,
    or are willing to create one,
    but do not know how to use Git,
    you can report problems or suggest improvements by [creating an issue][issues].
    This allows us to assign the item to someone
    and to respond to it in a threaded discussion.

3.  If you are comfortable with Git,
    and would like to resolve an existing issue that's been labeled by the maintainers
    or typos/bugs, you can submit a pull request (PR).

    If you'd like to suggest substantial changes such as removing or adding features in the functions,
    please first raise an issue to allow the maintainers to comment, so we can discuss whether/how these
    changes should be made.

## What to Contribute

There are many ways to contribute,
from writing new exercises and improving existing ones
to updating or filling in the documentation
and submitting [bug reports][issues]
about things that don't work, aren't clear, or are missing.
If you are looking for ideas,
please see [the list of issues for this repository][issues],
or the issues for [mlist][repo].

Comments on issues and reviews of pull requests are just as welcome:
we are smarter together than we are on our own.
Reviews from novices and newcomers are particularly valuable:
it's easy for people who have been using these lessons for a while
to forget how impenetrable some of this material can be,
so fresh eyes are always welcome.


## Using GitHub

If you choose to contribute via GitHub,
you may want to look at
[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub][how-contribute].
In brief:

1.  The published copy of the lesson is in the `gh-pages` branch of the repository and is
    automatically generated by Travis from the `master` branch.
    Please create all branches from the `master` branch,
    and merge the [master repository][repo]'s `master` branch into your `master` branch
    before starting work.
    Please do *not* work directly in your `master` branch,
    since that will make it difficult for you to work on other contributions.
    Please do *not* issue a pull request against this repo's `gh-pages` branch since that
    will not be preserved when the site is rebuilt.
S
2.  We use [GitHub flow][github-flow] to manage changes:
    1.  Create a new branch in your desktop copy of this repository for each significant change.
    2.  Commit the change in that branch.
    3.  Push that branch to your fork of this repository on GitHub.
    4.  Submit a pull request from that branch to the [master repository][repo]).
    5.  If you receive feedback,
        make changes on your desktop and push to your branch on GitHub:
        the pull request will update automatically.

Each function has several maintainers who review issues and pull requests
or encourage others to do so.
The maintainers are community volunteers,
and have final say over what gets merged into the lesson.

## Other Resources

Attribution of the Contributing file: [Software Carpentry CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/swcarpentry/r-novice-inflammation/blob/gh-pages/CONTRIBUTING.md)

[github]: http://github.com
[github-flow]: https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/
[github-join]: https://github.com/join
[how-contribute]: https://egghead.io/series/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github
[issues]: https://github.com/UBC-MDS/mlist_R/issues
[repo]: https://github.com/UBC-MDS/mlist_R
